- So now that we've talked about creating data
and how result sets work.
Let's jump in and actually read some data from our database.
I'd Like you to jump into your IDE
and go ahead and open up your project.
And once again, we're going to go to source main Java,
our base package,
and we're going to start with our CustomerDAO.
All right. So once again,
we're going to create a sequel statement here
and we're going to do it
by creating a private static final string.
And this time we're going to call it GET_ONE,
and it will be a select.
Now we're going to go ahead and numerate all of our values
instead of using a star operator.
When dealing with SQL queries in a bit of code,
I find it much more efficient to actually go ahead
and write them all out so that you can track
what is what and where it is.
It doesn't always play out the way you would expect
if you don't do this. So it's just a lot easier to do.
So go ahead and put all of our fields in.
And we are going to select this from customer,
where customer ID equals question mark.
Go ahead and finish that up.
Now let's go into this find by ID method.
And the first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to create our customer,
set it equal to a new customer.
And like we did before,
we're going to do a try with resources,
so prepared statement,
this.connection.prepareStatement,
and we will pass it our GET_ONE string.
and we'll put some braces.
And now that's going to show an error in my IDE
until I actually catch the SQL exception
being thrown from that.
And just like we did before,
we'll do the e.printStackTrace,
and then we will throw a new RuntimeException,
sending it that exception,
and we're going to return our customer.
We haven't built yet,
but we're just getting our scaffolding done.
We'll go ahead and close the sidebar
and just make this a little bit easier to read
cause we had a lot of typing to do.
Okay, so now we're going to take our statement
and we're going to set a long and it's the first value.
And we're going to pass in the ID from the method,
and then we're going to build a ResultSet.
Now often you'll see this abbreviated as RS,
and I'm not a big fan of abbreviating variables,
but I'm going to go ahead and do that
because we have a lot of typing to do,
which is usually why people make shortcuts.
When they're writing JDBC code like this.
Though, it may not be elegant form in Java,
sometimes it's just a necessity
because you've got a lot to type.
So consider doing it,
even though it doesn't always make sense.
So we're going to set that equal to statement.executeQuery.
So now we're going to do this iteration
that we talked about.
So while results set.next,
we're going to do a customer.setId equal to rs.getLong
and we will set it to the value of customer_id.
And we'll continue and go through all of our values.
So setFirstName equals to rs.getString,
and set it equal to first_name,
and continue to the rest of our object.
Okay, so now that we've typed all of that fun information,
I actually want to scroll down just a little bit
and we're going to go back to our create customer.
And instead of returning null,
we're going to get a value from the database.
And it's that helper method that I provided earlier.
We'll use the customer sequence,
and then we can now return this.findById,
passing at the ID.
And then we're actually returning data that matters.
And you can play with that on your own,
but I just want them to go ahead and type that in
as we were here.
So now I want to go back to our JDBC executer
and we're going to replace a large portion of this method.
We want you to set our customer equal to
our customerDAO.findById.
And we're going to type in the value of 1000
and then we will do a System.out.println,
and we will return the customer.FirstName,
put a space in there and customer.getLastName.
Now we're going to go ahead and run this.
And while we're doing that,
I just want to give you a little tip.
Often when I'm working with DTOs,
I put a two string method on them
to make this a little bit easier.
So I don't have to do that System.out.println.
I just put it on my object,
but in this case we're good to go.
And you'll see that when we run that method,
we're now getting data out
and that data equals Victor Woods.
And if you'll look at the original SQL file,
you will see Victor Woods listed in there with ID of 1000.